So now let's talk about ground truth for segmentation.
You have seen in the exercise that you have just done,
you had a mask which had the ground truth
for the liver segmentation that your network was performing.
Let us talk about where the ground truth is coming from.
So ground truth for segmentation is an interesting question because usually,
there are very few clinical workflows which create ground rules for medical imaging.
One is radiation therapy,
which Mazen has mentioned previously,
and this is something where segmentations or
contours are routinely created because radiation needs to be targeted.
But for many cases like quantitative radiology,
ground truth is not generated in the clinic.
If you're working on a segmentation project,
you will need to think of how to obtain such ground truth
by maybe involving clinicians who will be creating the ground truth.
But then it's an interesting question of how well do
these people agree with each other when they counter the same anatomy.
As you have seen in some of the images,
it is not always that obvious where
the delineations of organs and structures within the human body are.
Sometimes, as Mazen has talked about,
the contrast resolution and the spatial resolution,
the edges of structures are pretty obvious, sometimes they're not.
As we can see in the images here,
these images come from a study which was made
by some people at the University of Cambridge Hospital,
where they asked a few observers,
a few clinicians to contour the same five cases
of head and neck cancer on a computer tomography images.
They measured the level of conformity between those people.
You can see that the levels of conformity are not too high.
So on case 1, for example,
the level of agreement was only 38 percent.
Which means that mostly people were not delineating the same pixels.
There are some images here,
you can see the parotid gland,
for example, and the different colors here represent the different contours.
You can see how people were countering things differently.
Or for example, in the brainstem structure on the right here,
you can see how first,
the brainstem is not really visible on a CT.
The structures in the brain, as we have seen,
have very little gradient and finesse to them.
Here we can see how people were approaching
the contouring differently without having a proper contouring protocol.
So what does this all mean to you as a data scientist?
Well, it means that when you are creating
ground truth for your machine learning training sets,
you need to think of how consistent are users in labeling the ground truth,
in creating the ground truth,
and you might want to talk to the annotators
about instituting maybe common protocols for labeling the ground truth,
or if you're ground truth is coming from an external source,
you need to think about how well are
users agreeing with each other when the ground truth has been created.
So now, let us talk about some of the tooling for segmentation,
for creating ground truth in segmentation.
Just a quick note, the tooling
for annotating datasets for segmentation is not that prevalent.
There are some clinical tools that exist out there.
One tool which is popular and which we will touch upon in
the next lesson more closely is 3D Slicer.
But all of the tooling requires
some knowledge of both anatomy and some mastery of the tool.
So if you are engaged in, again,
in a labeling project for a segmentation dataset,
you need to really think about making
your tooling consistent and accessible for all the annotators.
So these are just a few notes on
the ground truth for segmentation and classification in general.
So in the next section,
let us talk about some of the performance metric for your segmentation models.